And those particular jokes were excluded from
that issue. The
battalion in those days did not see its role as
primarily investigative journalism, I assume.
What did you all think the purpose was of the
battalion? Well, it was the official newspaper of
College Station. They would give us, I think,
their legal ads. And we would print them. And then
of course it got some, we had also national
advertising, that's how we made it, the national
advertising, primarily cigarettes
that were allocated just to the newspaper without
much solicitation. Then we had local
advertisers, too, that came in there. And
we could write editorials, and we'd have letters
to the editor and things like that. Did you all ever
have a tangle with the administration over any
issue? Other than the jokes? No, the jokes, that's
the last one, because that was a non-winner. Now,
at the time you were an undergraduate, is Dr.
Walton the president? President. Describe him as
president. He was an excellent speaker and a fine
gentleman. During that last year, He gave us a
one-hour credit course where we would go once a
week to listen to his lecture on current affairs or
something like that. And he had actual contact
with the student body. As I recall, it was an
elective course, but he would come and lecture
himself. Now, and he had been at A&M a long time,
hadn't he? A long time. So that he knew the student
body and so forth. They lived on campus in the... In
the old... President's house west of Sabeasa.
Yeah. And I presume that you had known him and he had
known you for a number of years. That would be true.
In fact, I remember... as just a kid growing up, I
would sell magazines
through Crowell Publishing Company, who had
Woman's Home, Compadion, Collier's, and
American Magazine. And I would sell those on the
campus, and I would also call on the ladies, and I
remember Mrs. Walton and I would, she would be
interested in the Woman's Home Companion, and I
can always recall that that was the first air
conditioning on the campus, in fact, it was their
home. And it was really something extraordinary
to call on her and feel that cool air coming out.
Back to your student days, if you needed
counseling, if you needed advising when you were
an A&M undergraduate, to whom did you turn? I
don't think they had any local, I mean any student
Counseling, you could turn to the
TAC officer for your particular organization.
We had Colonel Bennett, Major Breland, and Major
Hudson. They were Coast artillerymen. You could
consult with them.
I don't know of any formal. There wasn't an
assistant or associate dean of arts and sciences
that you went over to? For academics, maybe, or the
head of the department. You could consult with him
academically, but there was no formal. The only
thing that I recall when I went through was that
your freshman year you had a, a battery of tests
that you took, and I guess they were put on your
record someplace in the registrar's office.
Somebody could use to advise you if you were
changing courses or something like that. Were you
listed officially as a history major?
No, liberal arts. Just liberal arts? I majored in
history and minored in English. Okay. So many
hours for a major, so many hours for a minor. And the
YMCA, what did you and other students, what role
did it play in your activity, your life? Well, it
was not so much if you had some kind of local, Church
affiliation, you know, most of the cadets or
students would join their church, you know, from
their family church when they came to A&M. And on a
Sunday morning, it was just a sea of khaki coming
out of the North Gate back to the campus. Now, did
you go to church on Sunday with your family or with
your buddies? I went to church at the First Baptist
Church and would see student friends and Father.
But, I mean, did you walk over there with your
friends? Oh, yeah, yeah. And you were allowed to
sit with them and not with Mom and Dad? Oh, yeah, I
didn't have to. But those were student churches.
Wasn't the YMCA also a center for activities other
than the YMCA building? Yes, they had the YMCA
Council, and that was made up of students. The only
other religious activity they had was a religious
emphasis week sometime in the spring, as I recall,
shortly after classes resumed from the holidays.
They would have a week-long session of visiting
ministers that would come in and they would have a
convocation each day at 11 o'clock or something
like that. And then they had emphasis with the
local churches. Did you and your buddies
participate in that pretty well? We'd go hear the
lecture
or the formal. And that was in Guyon Hall? Guyon
Hall, old Guyon Hall. What else occurred in Guyon
Hall? Well, at one time, when I was there, after
World War II, they made a movie theater out of it.
But it was not in your day? Not in our day. We had the
Assembly Hall, the old Assembly Hall over there
behind Law and Puryear, before we get to Law and
Puryear. Do you remember any great movies, great
in your memory that you saw at the Assembly Hall?
Oh, no, I can't. I guess, I don't recall, except
they had on Sunday afternoon a free movie at one
o'clock, you know, and you could, that was for the
entire corps, and if you were lucky, well, you
could, you know, slip in there and Well, they
didn't charge. It was a free move. As I'm turning
through some of my kind of routine questions, do
you remember in your undergraduate days any
famous visitors to the campus? President
Roosevelt. No, that wasn't during my
undergraduate days. That was in the 30s.
President Roosevelt came because his...
son was on the board of directors as i recall was it
elliot or i believe i believe it was elliot from who
lived in fort worth or someplace maybe i don't know
anyway he made a visit and i recall that of course he
came by train and uh yeah of course he he'd been an
invalid like he was you couldn't take any pictures
But I do know that there was a,
on the reviewing stand, on the drill field, that
when the Corps passed in review for him, that they
had a specially made handrail for him to stand.
I think he just came at noon and left at 3 or
something like that on some kind of a tour. Now,
were you and your family aware of how physically
handicapped he was then? I was not as a little kid. I
don't think anybody was actually because they
really protected that affliction all through his
career. As far as you recall, he did not then make a
formal speech. He did a review? I don't recall. But
I do know that he did review the cadet corps. Other
famous visitors you remember during your
undergraduate days?
Well, there weren't too many. They all came
afterwards. Oh, yeah, I do remember. I've seen a
year.
We had two, well, they weren't dignitaries, they
were just ex-A&M officers.
Ensign Gay was a member of A Battery Coast.
After he was rescued from the
Pacific, he made a visit to the campus. Really? And
he was still an ensign at the time. And he visited
around in the Corps. And at the same time, a
B-25 pilot in Doolittle's raid over Japan named
Hilger, he was an older graduate of A&M, he
returned to the campus. And that was in the summer
of 42.
And famous visitors, what about some of the
orchestras and other men? Oh, we had for the Grove,
the inauguration of the Grove, which was a little
social place in that summer, we had the famous Ina
Rae Hutton All-Girl Orchestra. They came and
played for that. And then there were some good
orchestras that came to A&M for core dances during
those times.
But, you know, I'd have to be... Oh, and of course
that time also they were making this movie, We've
Never Been Licked. That was during the summer of
42. when we had the corps for the movie take would
have to assemble every afternoon for a week, and
that got boring and tiresome. In fact, by the end of
the week, the ranks were rather slim. But let's
see, who was that? Robert Mitchum. Robert
Mitchum. Anne...
Bancroft? Martha O'Driscoll was one. So you were a
movie star then because you were out there in that
movie, weren't you? For a couple of days I was, and
then I left it. Do you remember your impression
when you first saw that movie? Well, you tried to
recall where you were, if you could point yourself
out and all, and I In fact, I've got a copy at home now
that I got way, way, I mean, just a few years ago. It
was a little corny, actually. It had an amazing
seeming, pretty authentic in places. But didn't
you and your fellow students think that you were
being part of something patriotic? Oh, yeah,
yeah, absolutely. How much did... The best thing
about that show was I believe they had the true
Reveille in it. The little black doll. The true
Reveille. When did... Let's sidelight on
Reveille. As far as you're aware, when did the
first Reveille come to the campus?
As I... Remember the story, some students were
coming back from Navasota one night or one
afternoon and they saw this injured animal on the
road or something. They picked her up and brought
her back to the campus. Was that in your elementary
school days? No, I think that was about in high
school days. Oh, okay. Shortly before I entered
A&M. All right, while we're on that tradition,
while you were, before you went away to World War
II, do you remember Muster, Aggie Muster? You
know, that's a good question. I don't want to be
disrespectful, but I don't think that it really
was reinstituted or came about until they
observed it during the war at Corregidor. I agree
with your impression. I think that it was... quite
modest until World War II, and then, all right. The
only thing that I could associate with it would be
that on November the 11th, which was Armistice Day
for World War I, the cadet colonel's staff would
place a wreath at the monument on the campus to the
World War I dead. But I just, you know, I just don't
recall it. All right. Describe bonfire during
your undergraduate days. It was a trash fire. The
main activity was reclaiming
wood or buildings or outhouses primarily that
should not be burned. And it was held on what is now
the drill field in front of the MSC. Correct. And
who gathered up all of that rubbish? Students. Was
it all students? Prowling. Now, they may have had
some
trees or limbs or rubbish or something like that
delivered there, but it just came about. It wasn't
near the...
activity that now. And was there a gathering of
pretty well the whole student body and speeches
and so forth? That was the most interesting was to
listen to old Yale leaders come back and make a
speech or to hear somebody like P.L. Downs Jr. who
was a Big Aggie would make a speech, you know. The
football team would make a speech. And that was
more interesting than going through all this
activity and building a huge bonfire. All right,
you mentioned Pinky. He was not yet back in College
Station full-time, was he, when you were an
undergraduate? When I got here in 1959, he was here
full-time on the campus. On the campus. I believe
that's correct. And I've been told by a few people
that they think that Pinky deserves most of the
credit for using the thumbs-up signal for Gig'Em,
that that was the old symbol for the yell aimed
particularly at TCU, to gig those frogs.
that there was a Rice Yale and an SMU Yale and so
forth. As I recall, that motion was given by the
Yale leaders when they, one, two, three,
to be associated. You could be correct about that.
I don't know. Let's see. But it's just like this
whoop. That didn't occur in my day. I didn't know.
That's relatively new. Well, and within the last
15, 18 years, the waving of the white towel. Oh,
that's new. Then the yell, which I don't like at
all, beat the hell out of. That started in the late
70s. No, I think that we used to say that. Oh, did
you? Oh, okay. We used to tell out of so-and-so, and
that, I think, could be attributed to the yellator
named Buster Keaton way back there in the 39-40 in
that era.
But, of course, you know, one thing that I'd like to
see bring back would be the the block tee that the
Cadet Corps made at football games. Yes, yes. And
that's where that you would have a handkerchief
would be white and then you'd pick up a red flag and
you could alternate those. You see that? That was
pretty good. But I don't guess they've attempted
that in years. I don't remember it. Do you remember
ever seeing it? Yes, a long time ago. When you were
an undergraduate, other than the Corps of Cadets,
what were the other student organizations that
were most respected, most admired?
Well, I want to say that they had a
scholarship honor society. Now, it didn't take a
whole lot to get in there, but you did have to be a
distinguished student for so many semesters or
something like that. And to be a distinguished
student on the three-point system, you had to have
a 2.25. That was an organization that had good
students in it. The other one, I guess, would be the
Letterman's Association, which would be the
athletic group. What did you and your fellow
students think about the band and the singing
cadets? The band was recognized. It wasn't the
Fightin' Texas Aggie Band. It was the band, you
see.
The senior cadets were good. It was very
voluntary. And they didn't have the uniforms that
they do now and the trips that they make and the
promotion that they did get. But it started way
back there then. Mr. Wolcott, I remember, he put a
whole lot of time into that. Let's see. Do you know
whether or not there were any secret fraternities
in existence when you were a student? When I was a
student,
I did not know of any organization. I came to learn
later that there may have been some that existed
for any number of years. But I don't know. I
have learned that apparently the stickers or the
swastikas goes back at least to the 20s. The
swastikas. And the TTs apparently go back fairly
far also. And as far as I can learn about Almost
their total activity was designed to get their own
members into key positions, that there was
nothing negative, that it was to try to encourage
positive leadership. Let's see. Senior Boots,
where did you get yours and how much did they cost?
Hollick Boot Shop, Northgate.
As I recall, They were about $80 or $90. Which was a
lot of money. Well, at that time, I don't know what
they cost now. I have no idea. And how did you feel
when you first put them on? Well, you felt pretty
good because at that time, let's see, you had...
Between your junior and... I mean, your sophomore
and junior year, you discarded...
government-issue uniform and put on a tailored
uniform that you had gotten, you see. Juniors, you
start wearing cuffs, of course. Then they went out
during the war and wore greens and a blouse. And
then your senior year, you could wear boots or ice
cream trousers, we called them.
That's the only thing that I recall about it.
Everything was leading up to where you could use
that blouse, your senior blouse, if you were
commissioned later on. Now,
in terms of status,
what student office was the most sought, the most
admired? Was it Corps Commander? Cadet Colonel.
Cadet. All right. Ross Volunteers, they existed
then? They did. They did. It was... Strictly kind
of an elective and voluntary, you could get into
it. They were more or less social, primarily
social, actually, because they had one whole
weekend where they had dances and parties. What
about yell leaders? They were elected. Let's see.
The top, I guess, would be cadet colonel, and then
we had a position of president of the senior class,
head yell leader. Those were particular
positions that were Salt. Describe, as far as you
recall, the project houses and what they meant to
A&M students. Well, the project houses were the
baby of Dr. Dan Russell, who organized them, and it
meant a whole lot
to the college. provided an opportunity for guys
to come down and go to school on a cooperative
basis. And I remember some members over there,
well, one of the more recent ones that we recall is
Reagan Brown was in the project houses. And there
were a lot of good students that went through that.
Was there any kind of stigma attached to it? None
whatsoever. In fact, the American Legion had its
own house, too. They built one. It's torn down now,
but the project houses were uniformly built. And
even before they existed on the campus, they had, I
think, a couple here in Bryan. Did you ever go away
for any kind of summer job? No, sir. And then what
would have been summer ROTC camp for you and your
class, you stayed here and went faster. Did you
ever hitchhike? I have hit tight on occasion,
but... Describe that for an Aggie. That was quite
an opportunity. That could be where the signal
picked up, but it was very controlled. In other
words, if you reached a point, if you put your...
bagged down while you were next in line, and that
was respected. Whoever got there first, there
were certain main corners that were used, and of
course the famous, what was his name, the famous
guy that hitchhiked all over the United States
from A&M. Good gracious. He made a name for
himself. I've not heard about him, so when you
recall his name, we'll add him in the final type
version of this. Did you ever have any negative
experience hitchhiking as an Aggie? I never did.
Did you ever hear of anybody did? I have not. I
haven't heard of any time when somebody, I've
heard of lots of times when they stepped in to
assist somebody You know, but I've never heard of
any adverse circumstance where anybody was.
If you were, I understand the East Gate was the
place to go north or south. Was there a special
place if we were in Bryan to catch a ride on north?
Let's see.
Well, Highway 6,
I'm just thinking at a corner not far from the
courthouse going north was a corner. Okay. About
at 26th Street or 25th Street, something like
that. And going south, 25th Street was a corner
there. at the courthouse going south. But you
know, there were no east and west roads like they
are today. Now,
did you ever have a car as an undergraduate? Never
had a car.
In fact, when my freshman year, I think you could
have parked the cars in a
two-acre lot. for all the students on campus who
had behavior. Did you have any special
out-of-town dates come to the campus when you were
an undergraduate?
Yes, I recall for